TryHackMe Walkthrough: Easy Peasy

By Adhith

Introduction

The Easy Peasy room on TryHackMe is a beginner-friendly Capture The Flag (CTF) challenge that focuses on basic web enumeration, hidden directories, file analysis, and simple exploitation techniques.

This lab is ideal for beginners who want to practice real-world penetration testing concepts in a controlled environment.

Objective

The goal of this room is to enumerate the target machine, discover hidden resources, and capture multiple flags by exploiting weak configurations.

Tools Used

During this lab, the following tools were used:

Nmap

Gobuster

Dirb

Steghide

Strings

Netcat

Task 1: Initial Reconnaissance
Step 1: Nmap Scan

The first step is to scan the target machine for open ports.

nmap -sC -sV <target-ip>
Result

The scan reveals multiple open ports such as:

Port 80 (HTTP)

Other possible services depending on the machine

Key Learning

Nmap helps identify open ports and running services, which is the foundation of enumeration.

Task 2: Web Enumeration
Step 2: Directory Brute Force

To find hidden directories:

gobuster dir -u http://<target-ip> -w /usr/share/wordlists/dirb/common.txt
Result

Hidden directories and files are discovered. These often contain clues or flags.

Key Learning

Web enumeration is crucial for discovering hidden attack surfaces.

Task 3: Hidden Files and Clues
Step 3: Inspect Website Content

View page source

Look for hidden comments

Check unusual file paths

Result

Flags or hints are often hidden in:

<!-- hidden_flag -->
Key Learning

Always check frontend code before moving to advanced techniques.

Task 4: File Analysis
Step 4: Download and Analyze Files

Some directories contain downloadable files such as images or text files.

Use:

file filename
strings filename
Result

Hidden information or encoded data is revealed.

Key Learning

Files often contain embedded data that can lead to flags.

Task 5: Steganography
Step 5: Extract Hidden Data from Images

If an image is found, analyze it:

steghide extract -sf image.jpg

If needed:

binwalk -e image.jpg
Result

Hidden files or passwords are extracted.

Key Learning

Steganography is commonly used to hide sensitive data in CTF challenges.

Task 6: Gaining Access
Step 6: Use Credentials or Clues

Using previously found hints, attempt access via:

Login pages

Services

Hidden endpoints

Example
nc <target-ip> <port>
Result

Access is gained, revealing more flags.

Task 7: Capturing Flags

Throughout the lab, multiple flags are captured by:

Decoding hidden messages

Exploring directories

Extracting data from files

Each flag follows a specific format and confirms progress.

Challenges Faced

Identifying hidden directories

Understanding encoded data

Extracting data from images

These challenges help build a strong problem-solving mindset.

Key Takeaways

Enumeration is the most important step

Small clues can lead to big discoveries

Always analyze files thoroughly

Combine multiple techniques to solve challenges

Conclusion

The Easy Peasy room is a great starting point for beginners in cybersecurity. It reinforces core skills such as enumeration, file analysis, and basic exploitation.

By completing this room, you gain practical experience that is essential for more advanced penetration testing labs.
