One Piece TryHackMe Walkthrough

A Beginner-Friendly CTF Write-up

Introduction

The One Piece room on TryHackMe is a beginner-level Capture The Flag (CTF) challenge designed to test fundamental skills in web enumeration, exploitation, and privilege escalation.

This room is themed around the popular anime One Piece, making it engaging while still delivering core cybersecurity learning.

In this walkthrough, I will explain each step clearly, from initial reconnaissance to gaining full system access.

Room Overview

Difficulty: Easy

Type: Boot2Root

Skills Required:

Basic Linux commands

Web enumeration

Understanding of common vulnerabilities

Step 1: Initial Reconnaissance

Start by scanning the target machine using Nmap:

nmap -sC -sV -oN scan.txt <TARGET_IP>
Key Findings:

Open ports (commonly HTTP and SSH)

Service versions detected

This step helps identify entry points into the system.

Step 2: Web Enumeration

After discovering an HTTP service, open the IP address in your browser.

Observations:

A themed webpage related to One Piece

Possible hidden directories

Use Gobuster to enumerate directories:

gobuster dir -u http://<TARGET_IP>/ -w /usr/share/wordlists/dirb/common.txt
Important Discovery:

Hidden directories such as /admin, /images, or /uploads

These directories often contain sensitive files or login portals.

Step 3: Finding Credentials

While exploring directories, you may find:

Text files

Comments in source code

Hidden credentials

Check page source:

Ctrl + U

Look for:

Usernames

Passwords

Hints

Step 4: Gaining Initial Access

Using discovered credentials, attempt login via:

Web login panel

SSH service

Example:

ssh username@<TARGET_IP>

If successful, you now have initial access to the system.

Step 5: Privilege Escalation

Once inside the machine, check for privilege escalation vectors.

Basic Enumeration Commands:
whoami
id
sudo -l
Key Checks:

Sudo permissions

Writable files

SUID binaries

If sudo -l shows allowed commands, exploit them to gain root access.

Step 6: Capturing the Flags

Locate important files:

find / -name "*.txt" 2>/dev/null

Typical flags:

user.txt

root.txt

Read them using:

cat user.txt
cat root.txt
Key Learning Points

Importance of enumeration before exploitation

How hidden directories can expose sensitive data

Basic privilege escalation techniques

Real-world simulation of attack workflow

Conclusion

The One Piece room on TryHackMe is an excellent starting point for beginners. It teaches the importance of patience, enumeration, and thinking creatively while solving CTF challenges.

If you are new to cybersecurity, this room is a great way to build confidence and practical skills.

Suggested Thumbnail Ideas

Pirate-themed hacker illustration (dark mode)

Skull with terminal code background

Luffy-style silhouette with cybersecurity elements

Terminal screen with “Access Granted” in anime theme

Author

Adhith
Cybersecurity Enthusiast | TryHackMe Learner
