TryHackMe Walkthrough: Web Application Basics

By Adhith

Introduction

The Web Application Basics room on TryHackMe introduces the fundamental concepts behind how web applications function and how users interact with them. It builds on basic web knowledge and moves towards understanding how data flows between clients and servers.

This room is essential for beginners who want to move into web application security and penetration testing.

Objective

The goal of this room is to understand:

How web applications work

The role of HTTP requests and responses

GET vs POST methods

Parameters and user input

Basic concepts used in web exploitation

Task 1: What is a Web Application?

A web application is a program that runs on a web server and interacts with users through a browser.

Examples

Login pages

Search forms

Online shopping websites

Key Learning

Web applications process user input and return dynamic responses.

Task 2: HTTP Requests
What is an HTTP Request?

An HTTP request is sent from the client (browser) to the server to request data.

Example
GET /login HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Components

Method (GET, POST)

URL

Headers

Body (optional)

Task 3: HTTP Responses
What is an HTTP Response?

The server sends back a response after processing the request.

Example
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html
Common Status Codes

200 → OK

404 → Not Found

500 → Server Error

Key Learning

Responses tell us whether a request was successful or failed.

Task 4: GET vs POST
GET Method

Sends data through the URL

Visible in the browser

Used for retrieving data

Example:

http://example.com/search?q=test
POST Method

Sends data in the request body

Not visible in URL

Used for submitting data

Key Learning

Understanding GET and POST is important for identifying vulnerabilities.

Task 5: URL Parameters
What are Parameters?

Parameters pass data to the server through the URL.

Example
http://example.com/page?id=1
Key Learning

User-controlled parameters are common entry points for attacks.

Task 6: User Input and Security
Why is User Input Important?

Web applications accept input from users, which can be manipulated.

Risks

Injection attacks

Data manipulation

Unauthorized access

Key Learning

Always validate and sanitize user input.

Task 7: Cookies
What are Cookies?

Cookies store user data in the browser.

Uses

Session management

Authentication

Tracking

Key Learning

Cookies can sometimes be exploited if not properly secured.

Task 8: Developer Tools
Browser DevTools

Used to inspect and modify web requests.

Features

View requests and responses

Modify parameters

Debug web applications

Key Learning

Developer tools are essential for analyzing web behavior.

Task 9: Final Summary

This room focuses on understanding how web applications function rather than exploiting them.

Key Takeaways

Web applications rely on HTTP communication

Requests and responses form the backbone of web interaction

GET and POST methods handle data differently

Parameters are critical in data exchange

User input must always be validated

Cookies manage sessions and user state

Conclusion

The Web Application Basics room is a crucial step for beginners moving into web security. It provides the foundational knowledge required to understand how vulnerabilities arise in real-world applications.

Mastering these concepts will make it easier to learn advanced topics like SQL Injection, XSS, and authentication bypass.
